content/posts/blood-phobia.md, before:

---
title: "Blood Phobia"
date: 2019-12-09T07:46:44-05:00
draft: true
---

I don't know when I developed my blood phobia. As a kid I already knew to tell nurses that getting my blood drawn made me light headed. One nurse insisted that "If I do it right you won't". I remember walking into the waiting room and fainting. 

But this story would not be interesting if I was just bothered by getting my blood drawn. Around two years ago I fainted on a subway platform while listening to a podcast and was taken to the hostipal to test for head injuries. I had not fainted since I had gotten my blood drawn as a kid.

I didn't want to go to the hospital again so I became more cautious. Meeting new people became difficult. My tactic was to let people know if a topic of conversation was off limits to me. If they didn't immediately change the subject then I physically left the conversation. There was no chill, easy going way to handle this while protecting my safety.

Where I Was When I Started 

As a kid I played Crash Bandicoot and Tony Hawk's Pro Skater with my dad and brother.

Commit message:

Add section about Dead Cells to blog post

content/posts/blood-phobia.md, after:

---
title: "Blood Phobia"
date: 2019-12-09T07:46:44-05:00
draft: true
---

I don't know when I developed my blood phobia. As a kid I already knew to tell nurses that getting my blood drawn made me light headed. One nurse insisted that "If I do it right you won't". I remember walking into the waiting room and fainting. 

But this story would not be interesting if I was just bothered by getting my blood drawn. Around two years ago I fainted on a subway platform while listening to a podcast. I was taken to the hostipal to get tested for head injuries. I had not fainted since I had gotten my blood drawn as a kid.

I didn't want to go to the hospital again so I became more cautious. Meeting new people became difficult. My tactic was to let people know if a topic of conversation was off limits to me. If they didn't immediately change the subject then I physically left the conversation. There was no chill, easy going way to handle this while protecting my safety.

How It Began 

As a kid I played Crash Bandicoot and Tony Hawk's Pro Skater with my dad and brother. As an adult I occassionally played casual mobile games. About four months ago I started downloading more mobile games just to see what was out there. I followed my friend Em Lazer-Walker's list of iOS Games Worth Playing. 

My blood phobia is so indiosyncratic that I can't tell ahead of time what games will trigger me.  So, I tried everything. 

One day I downloaded Dead Cells. At $9.00 it was pricey for a mobile game but it had great reviews and was featured by Apple. I was hooked. I couldn't articulate at the time why this appealed to me or why it didn't trigger my phobia. You see blood, but it's in a pixel art style. The story is violent, but it's barely there and easy to avoid. The main character has been through some shit, but they don't have to talk about it. When I played this game on my iPad for long periods of time it overheated and the battery ran out quickly. My fingers started sliding and it was hard to be precise. 

I bought a Switch Lite because I wanted something better but wasn't sure how long this phase would last.

Kill. Die. Learn. Repeat.

I've been seeing a therapist weekly for the last two years. She knew that I didn't think progress on my blood phobia was possible, and didn't push me on it. Dead Cells was not just a breakthrough for my blood phobia, it also made it easier to bring up past traumas. This game is brutal, but it captures my worldview faithfully. Constant threats, no chance to sit down or truely rest, no time to dwell on the past. In the game you get to pick up to three mutations that give you buffs. I remember crying "I want to live in a world like this, where your mutations are good and you want more of them." 

There are so many stories about people with dark backgrounds and mutations doing great things. They are a cliche. But I never got to experience those stories. I was seeing myself for the first time in a piece of media and it was glorious. 

Developing A Strategy
